Track 1: Predicting ACR and CCR of speech quality for speech enhancement systems
Task & dataset description
The objective of this track is to predict the absolute category ratings (ACRs) and comparative category ratings (CCRs) of speech generated by speech enhancement systems.

All the samples are from the ICASSP 2026 URGENT Challenge listening test. [arXiv paper link]

This dataset contains enhanced speech samples from the top six performing systems in the challenge, evaluated on 840 multilingual utterances across nine languages.

Set name	Number of ACR samples	Number of CCR samples
Validation set	1008	2520
Evaluation set	4032	10080
Data for training phase
There is no official training data for this track.

The dev set can be obtained here: https://huggingface.co/datasets/urgent-challenge/vmc2026-track1-dev.
The README explains the structure and usage of the dataset.

NOTE: We don't provide the sample-wise labels for the dev set because we don't want the participants to overfit their system to it. One can however submit to the CodaBench system to obtain the UTT-SRCC calculated over the dev set. The dev set labels will, however, be released after the training phase is over.

Data for evaluation
To be announced.

Evaluation metrics
For the leaderboard, we will primarily be using and only showing on the leaderboard the utterance-level Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (UTT-SRCC) for both ACR and CCR.

However, in our final summary paper, as in previous challenges, we will report both system-level and utterance-level mean squared error (MSE), Linear Correlation Coefficient (LCC), SRCC, and Kendall Tau Rank Correlation (KTAU) are used.

Please refer to this code snippet for calculation.

Submission format
The prediction results should be put in a text file, and it MUST be named as predictions.csv. It should have the following format:

sample_id,pred_score
vmc2026-track1-test-acr_4588,3.42
vmc2026-track1-test-ccr_3061,-0.15
Please note that it is sample ID, so it must not be a path.
The file should contain a complete set of predictions for both ACR and CCR, matching the required row counts for each phase.
ACR scores must lie in [1, 5]; CCR scores in [-3, +3]. All scores can be a floating point number and need not need to be an integer.
Finally, compress the file with zip format and name it whatever you want. There is NO naming requirement for the zip file. To avoid generating extra folders, it is recommended to use the following command:

zip -j <any_name>.zip predictions.csv
Detailed instructions for submission and FAQ
It is recommended to read this document when submitting to CodaBench for the first time: https://voicemos-challenge-2023.github.io/codalab.html