Welcome to the VoiceMOS Challenge 2026!
Brief introduction
Founded in 2022, the VoiceMOS Challenge (VMC) series aims to use standardized datasets in diverse and challenging domains to understand and compare prediction techniques for human ratings of speech, specifically those collected through a mean opinion score (MOS) test, thus the name VoiceMOS Challenge. The main motivation is to foster development in automatic, data-driven speech assessment approaches, to overcome the costly and time-consuming human listening tests that are conventionally regarded as the gold standard for evaluating speech.

After running VMC for three years, in 2025, we organized the AudioMOS Challenge (AMC), where we enlarged the scope to singing voices, music, and even general synthetic audio. Despite the success, we received feedback from the community that the main problems in the evaluation of speech remain unsolved. In 2026, we thus decided to roll back to VMC, where we put our focus back on speech again.

For this year, the primary evaluation metrics for MOS prediction will be the Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (SRCC). As usual, there is no participation fee. We are still deciding on the venue for participants to submit their papers, and the current plan is to host a special session or a satellite workshop at ICASSP 2027.

Tracks
Track 1: Predicting MOS of speech quality for speech enhancement systems
The first track is on speech generated by speech enhancement systems. This track is based on the subjective listening test data from the ICASSP 2026 URGENT Challenge. The dataset contains enhanced speech samples from the top six performing systems in the challenge, evaluated on 840 multilingual utterances across nine languages. Given an input speech sample, the system is required to predict both the Absolute Category Rating (ACR) and Comparative Category Rating (CCR).

Track 2: Predicting MOS of speech naturalness and emotion similarity for emotional TTS systems
The second track focuses on synthetic speech from emotional TTS systems and emotional human speech. Given an input speech sample, the system is required to predict (1) MOS for speech quality, (2) MOS for emotion (degree of similarity to the target synthesized emotion label), as well as, optionally, (3) listeners' categorical choices of perceived emotions and (4) ratings for valence, arousal, and dominance.

Track 3: Predicting MOS of speaker and accent similarity for codec-based speech synthesis systems
The third track targets accented English speech generated by codec-based speech synthesis systems. This track is based on the CodecMOS-Accent dataset, which contains 4,000 samples from 24 contemporary codec resynthesis and TTS systems, featuring 32 speakers across ten distinct accents. Given an input speech sample and a reference speech sample, the system is required to predict both the speaker and accent similarity scores.

Schedule
The tentative schedule for the VoiceMOS Challenge 2026 is as follows:

Friday, May 22 (or earlier): Training datasets are released on the CodaBench page.
Friday, July 31: Evaluation dataset released to participants.
Friday, August 7: Predicted scores submission deadline.
Monday, August 31: Results announced.
Wednesday, September 16: ICASSP 2027 paper deadline.
Rules
Participants are required to submit at least once to the leaderboard during the training phase, but may make up to 30 submissions per day.
Participants may make up to three submissions during the evaluation phase, and may choose only one submission as the final answer.
Participants are required to submit a system description by the end of the challenge.
Any public dataset may be used to develop your prediction system, and the datasets used must be reported in the system description. Use of proprietary datasets, including collecting your own MOS ratings, is not permitted unless the resources are publicly available.
System description guidelines
System descriptions must clearly designate whether external data / resources were used or not.
If external data / resources were used, pointers to these must be included, or if they are proprietary, then enough description must be provided to reproduce them reasonably well.
System descriptions must describe system architecture, training strategy, data processing, etc. in enough detail to be reproducible. Open-source code is strongly encouraged but not required.
System architectures should be illustrated using a figure.
System descriptions are strongly encouraged (but not required) to be uploaded to arXiv.
Baseline toolkit
This year we have a centralized Github repo for the baseline systems! Codebase: https://github.com/voicemos-challenge/vmc2026-baselines

Track 1
URGENT-MOS (Paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.18438)
Track 2
QMOS Baseline: UTMOS (Paper: https://www.isca-archive.org/interspeech_2022/saeki22c_interspeech.html)
Emotion Categories Baseline: Emotion2vec (Paper: https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-acl.931.pdf)
EMOS Baseline: Gemini LLM-as-judge.
Valence, Arousal, and Dominance Baseline: Gemini LLM-as-judge.
Track 3
A speaker embedding-based method.